Background of the Study:

e-Commerce industry faces several logistics challenges and it is not just about the lack of standardization in postal addresses.
• One of the major challenge is the logistical complexity, which consumes huge amount of capital and time to solve it.
• Small deliveries to many places causes complex routing problems. Deliveries are time-bound and are restricted to time periods and certain routes. Due to the dispersed customer location, it is difficult for the delivery guys to find the customer location
• For start ups, developing and implementing a system to accept online orders can get expensive. There are two ways to do it: your own system created from scratch or buying a solution.
Companies operating in logistics industry face unique challenges as delivery guys operate in vast territories. The challenges these companies face include:
• No real-time coordination
• Ineffective technology application
• Admin work
• Locating customer addresses
• Visibility of field workforce
Time equals money in any business and to be honest, managing the field workforce in this competitive environment can be complicated. It is difficult to keep track of each and every driver or delivery boy which in turn results in inefficiency and late deliveries.
//----------------
Logistics always was and still remains the most important part of the ecommerce business, because it is the point where an online transaction gets transformed into an offline, hand-to-hand delivery. It is easy to see how successful online retail ventures owe their success to a sharp focus on the logistical part of their operation. The Indian ecommerce industry is looking at a steep rise, slated to touch $100 billion by 2020, and $220 billion by 2025 according to Merrill Lynch. The implications of this growth are enormous. It may well be said that the face of ecommerce and online retail ten years from now, will be completely unrecognisable from what it is today. One of the major forces behind this change would be technology.
It is interesting to see how much of what we know to be the logistical process is invested in technology. All our products are first inventorized, converted into data using SKU codes – before a single transaction even begins. Further movement of each product then depends on the accessibility of this data – if a product is not in the database, it does not exist.
The last mile fulfilment is more often than not a headache for most online sellers. This is because the last mile is generally when the product is truly off the grid. There has always been a debate on whether to outsource the last mile delivery or to take it in your own hands, but maybe technology can give us a third option. Let us take a brief look at the current logistics scenario in India, how far have we come, how much further do we have to go 
///------------------------
The genetic algorithm

The genetic algorithm is a method for solving both constrained and unconstrained optimization problems that is based on natural selection, the process that drives biological evolution. The genetic algorithm repeatedly modifies a population of individual solutions. At each step, the genetic algorithm selects individuals at random from the current population to be parents and uses them to produce the children for the next generation. Over successive generations, the population "evolves" toward an optimal solution. You can apply the genetic algorithm to solve a variety of optimization problems that are not well suited for standard optimization algorithms, including problems in which the objective function is discontinuous, nondifferentiable, stochastic, or highly nonlinear. The genetic algorithm can address problems of mixed integer programming, where some components are restricted to be integer-valued.
The genetic algorithm uses three main types of rules at each step to create the next generation from the current population:
• Selection rules select the individuals, called parents, that contribute to the population at the next generation.
• Crossover rules combine two parents to form children for the next generation.
• Mutation rules apply random changes to individual parents to form children.

//----------------
The Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows
The VRPTW can be described as the problem of design
ing least cost routes from one depot to a set of 
geographically scattered points. 
The routes must be designed in such a way that 
each point is visited only once by exactly one 
vehicle within a given time interval, all routes
 start and end at the depot, and the total demands
 of all points on one particular route must not 
exceed the capacity of the vehicle. 
Both traditional heuristic route construction 
methods and recent local search algorithms are 
examined. The basic features of each method are 
described, and experimental results for 
Solomon’s benchmark test problems are 
presented and analyzed.
 Moreover, we discuss how heuristic methods 
should be evaluated and propose using 
the concept of Pareto optimality in the
 comparison of different heuristic approaches. 
The metaheuristic methods are described in the second part of 
this article.
//----------------------

MACS-VRPTW, an Ant Colony Optimization based 
approach useful to solve vehicle routing 
problems with time windows is presented. 
MACS-VRPTW is organized with a hierarchy of 
artificial ant colonies designed to successively 
optimize a multiple objective function: the first
 colony minimizes the number of vehicles while 
the second colony minimizes the traveled distances.
 Cooperation between colonies is performed by
exchanging information through pheromone updating.
 We show that MACS-VRPTW is competitive with the
 best known existing methods both in terms of 
solution quality and computation time. Moreover, 
MACS-VRPTW improves some of the best solutions 
known for a number of problem instances in the 
literature.
//------------
Finding optimal solutions for vehicle
 routing problem with pickup and delivery 
services with time windows: 
A dynamic programming approach based on
 state–space–time network representations 

In this paper, in order to improve the solution 
quality and computational efficiency of on-demand
transportation systems and dynamic ride-sharing 
services, especially for large-scale real-world 
transportation networks, we propose a new 
mathematical programming model for the vehicle 
routing problem with pickup and delivery with 
time windows (VRPPDTW) that can fully recognize 
time-dependent link travel time caused by traffic 
congestion at different times of day. Based on 
the Lagrangian relaxation solution framework, we 
further present a holistic optimization approach 
for matching passengers’ requests to 
transportation service providers, synchronizing 
transportation vehicle routing, and determining 
request pricing (e.g. through Lagrangian multiplier
s) for balancing transportation demand satisfaction and resource needs on urban networks. 

//---------

Multi-Objective Genetic Algorithms for 
Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows

The Vehicle Routing Problem with Time windows (VRPTW) is an extension of the capacity constrained Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP). The VRPTW is NP-Complete and instances with 100 customers or more are very hard to solve optimally. We represent the VRPTW as a multi-objective problem and present a genetic algorithm solution 
using the Pareto ranking technique. We use 
a direct interpretation of the VRPTW as a
 multi-objective problem, in which the two 
objective dimensions are number of vehicles 
and total cost (distance). An advantage of 
this approach is that it is unnecessary to 
derive weights for a weighted sum scoring 
formula. This prevents the introduction of
 solution bias towards either of the problem 
dimensions. We argue that the VRPTW is most 
naturally viewed as a multi-objective problem, 
in which both vehicles and cost are of equal
 value, depending on the needs of the user. A 
result of our research is that the 
multi-objective optimization genetic algorithm 
returns a set of solutions that fairly consider 
both of these dimensions. 
Our approach is quite effective, 
as it provides solutions competitive with 
the best known in the literature, as well 
as new solutions that are not biased toward 
the number of vehicles. A set of well-known 
benchmark data are used to compare the 
effectiveness of the proposed method for solving 
the VRPTW.
